OSCAR release notes 


--------------------------- Version 3.30 --------------------------- 

Major update with name changes of functions to be consistent

Possibility to calculate on GPU for speed improvement

Option for automatically have an optimal mode matching for
the input beam

Several functions with additional options and bug fixes

--------------------------- Version 3.20 --------------------------- 

New kind of cavity implemented: several mirror linear cavity 

Possibility to create synthetic map from a 1D PSD 

The input beam can now be defined as Laguerre Gauss sinusoidal or 
helicoidal 

FSR scan with sidebands is now possible 

Numerous small improvements and some bug fixes also. 

--------------------------- Version 3.16 --------------------------- 

Main reason: update to be compatible with the latest Matlab versions. 

Possibility to add some higher order modes to a Gaussian beam. 

Can now load a Zygo .dat map directly, the surfaces and the relevant 
grid is automatically calculated. 

More robust functions to calculate the resonance condition and the 
steady state laser fields. 

Possibility to add finite size optics and maps in a telescope. 

--------------------------- Version 3.15 --------------------------- 

Implementation of Zernike polynomials. 

Derive now the stability condition for linear cavity with an arbitrary 
number of mirrors. 

Can fit astigmatic fundamental Gaussian beam. 

Numerous small improvements and bug fixes under the hood. 

--------------------------- Version 3.14 --------------------------- 

New functions to calculate the radius of curvature of an interface 
weighted by an arbitrary beam. Also the RMS can be calculated in such a 
way (or within an arperture). 

The accelerated convergence scheme also works now in presence of 
sidebands. The transmission through an instance of the class 'Mirror' 
works also for the sidebands now. A bug on the round trip phase 
calculation of the eigen modes was found and corrected. 

Previously when using add_map() with a large scaling factor (>1000), the 
curvature could be badly removed. That has been fixed now. 

--------------------------- Version 3.13 --------------------------- 

ReadZygoBinary(): can read .dat file saved by the Zygo Metropro 
software. It is the common file format for mirror maps of second 
generation interferometers since they are usually measured with a ZYGO 
interferometer. 

Plot_PSD(): plot the 1D PSD of a 2D map. To pass to 1D, one can sum over 
one direction or over a constant radius. Weighting with a Gaussian beam 
is possible. 

Cut_frequency_Interface(): can remove certain spatial frequency from a 
map (low pass, high pass or band pass). This is done in a crude way (no 
windowing). 

Add_tilt(), used to tilt the wavefront of an electrical field, now also 
tilt the sidebands if they are present. 

Focus_beam_with_telescope() also works now for beam with sidebands. 
Expand_HOM() Expand a beam into higher order modes, useful to quanitfy 
the mode content. 

Check_stability(): new calculation to determine the input beam 
parameters for perfect mode matching. Small bugs fixing here and there. 

--------------------------- Version 3.12 --------------------------- 

New accelerated convergence scheme has been implemented to find the 
steady state field inside a cavity. The computational time could be 
reduced by a factor ~5. This scheme has only been implemented for the 
carrier. 

Possibility to simulate telescope with strong magnification. The grid 
size is automatically adjusted in order to match the size of the beam. 

Possibility now to lock the cavity using a real PDH locking error 
signal. 

Additional options for some functions: for 'Interface()' RoC can now be 
set to 'Inf' for flat mirrors, surface can be plotted within a certain 
diameter, while adding a map, one can subtract tilt and curvature 
measured from a certain diameter and additional other little stuff. 

--------------------------- Version 3.11 --------------------------- 

Bug fixes and light improvement 

--------------------------- Version 3.10 --------------------------- 

New Mirror class: used to simulate thick substrates and etalon effect. 
Mirrors are constituted of 2 Interfaces, separated by a space with a 
certain refractive index. 

Digital integration: new method to propagate the beam. This method 
albeit slower eliminates the light falling outside the grid. This method 
can only be used over long distances (the meaning of 'long' depends on 
the size of the grid) 

Eigen mode: new function to calculate and display the eigen modes and 
eigen values of a stable cavity. Useful to design cavities since one can 
check the resonance frequencies of all the higher order modes. 

--------------------------- Version 3.05 --------------------------- 

New cavity class: CavityN, one can know defined a linear cavity with an 
arbitrary number of mirrors (like a 4 mirrors OMC cavity). 

New syntax to define the laser beam (class E_beam). The beam parameters 
can be entered as beam radius and curvature of the wavefront, beam waist 
and distance from the waist or with complex Gaussian beam parameter q. 

New syntax to define the interface (Class Interface). It now uses the 
input parser of Matlab to be more flexible. Can now input the angle of 
incidence of the beam for small angle as the parameter 'AoI', in that 
case the surface will generate astigmatism upon reflection/transmission. 

New syntax also to include maps as text files. Possible options are now 
scaling factor, normalise for a certain RMS, rotate the map. For 
cylindrical symmetric maps, a 2D column file can now be entered (radius 
sagitta change). Can now plot the amplitude of the beam in log scale or 
also the propagation of the beam ( E_plot(E1,'space','log') or 
E_plot(E1,'angle') ). 

--------------------------- Version 3.0 --------------------------- 

Major upgrade of OSCAR. Use of the oriented object programming 
capability of Matlab. See the example to have a look of the new 
possibility. 

